Welcome back.
In this video, I'm going to show you
how you can use the probability matrix,
the one that you learned
in the previous video, and
I'll show you how you can
use it to create a path, so
that you can assign a parts
of speech tag to every word.
Let me show you how you can do this.
The backward pass is the last of
three steps of the Viterbi algorithm,
where you'll retrieve the most likely
sequence of parts of speech tags for
your given sequence of words.
By now you've populated the matrices C and
D.
Now you just have to extract the path
through your graph from the matrix D,
which represents the sequence of hidden
states that most likely generated
our sequence,
word one all the way to word K.
First, calculate the index
of the entry Ci,K
with the highest probability
in the last column of C.
The probability at this index is
the probability of the most likely
sequence of hidden states,
generating the given sequence of words.
You use this index s to traverse
backwards through the matrix D,
to reconstruct the sequence
of parts of speech tags.
First, calculate the index
of the entry Ci,K
with the highest probability
in the last column of C.
The probability at this index
is the probability of the most
likely sequence of hidden states,
generating the given sequence of words.
You use this index s to traverse
backwards through the matrix D,
to reconstruct the sequence
of parts of speech tags.
Let's look at a simple example for a
matrix D, for a model with four states and
a given word sequence of length five.
The matrix D,
stores all the labels of the hidden states
you've traversed in the forward path.
If you're going back through the states,
starting with the path that has the
highest probability, you effectively got
the most likely sequence of hidden states,
or parts of speech sites.
You start by looking up the entry
with the highest probability in
the last row of the matrix C, and
extract the index s of that entry.
Let's look at the matrix C with some
probabilities you might have computed in
the forward pass.
You now want to calculate the index
s of the entry in the last row of C,
which has the highest probability.
The entry with the highest probability,
is the first one with 0.01.
Written as a formula,
s is the argmax Ci,K,
which in this case is equal to 1.
That index represents the last
hidden state you traversed
when you observe the word w5.
So the most likely states of word
w5 is the t1 parts of speech tag.
So you add t1 to the end
of the sequence and
look up the next index in D,
which tells you where you came from.
This next index is 3.
Now move on to the fourth
word in the sequence,
which means you're now looking at
the fourth column in the matrix D.
To decide which row of
the matrix to look at,
recall that in matrix D, column five,
the top row holds the value 3, or
3 represents the previous state
with the highest probability.
So t3 is the most likely state for
word number 4.
So you would associate word number 4,
with the state number 3, which is
the parts of speech label number 3.
You can keep walking left to
each column of the matrix D.
Since the value stored in column 4,
row 3, is the number 1,
you can assign the parts of speech sag
t1 to the previous word, word number 3.
Also, when you go left to column 3,
you will look for row 1,
representing state 1,
which you see highlighted in green.
The value stored in column 3,
row 1 is 3, this means that
the previous word has parts of speech
tag number 3 associated with it.
So associated word number 2
with parts of speech tag 3.
Now walk left one column
in the matrix to column 2.
Since the value stored in the green cell
in column 3 is 3, go to row 3 of column 2.
In column 2 the value
stored in row 3 is 2.
This means that for word one,
the most likely state is
part of speech tag number 2.
And the algorithm stops as you
have arrived at the start token,
with the values stored in the second
row of the first column being 0.
The sequence of ti that you have
recovered in the backward pass,
is the sequence of parts of speech
tags with the highest probability.
Before you go,
there are two implementation
specific issues to be aware of.
When you implement the Viterbi algorithm
in the programming assignment,
be careful with the indices,
as lists of matrix indices in
Python start with 0 instead of 1.
Another implementation specific issue, is
when you multiply many very small numbers
like probabilities, this will lead
to numerical issues, so you should
use log probabilities instead, where
numbers are summed instead of multiplied.
Don't worry, I'll be revisiting
this concept later in the course.
Congratulations on finishing this week.
You now know about the Viterbi algorithm,
and specifically you've used this for
parts of speech tagging.
You can use part of
speech tagging in search,
in machine translation, in speech
recognition, and also in parsing.
Next week you're going to learn
about a different type of task,
which is known as N-gram language models.